### **A global dataset of pandemic- and epidemic-prone disease outbreaks**

### **Torres Munguía, J.A.; Badarau, F.C.; Díaz Pavez, L.R.; Martínez-Zarzoso, I.; & Wacker, Konstantin M.**

Here you can find a new dataset of infectious disease outbreaks
collected from the [Disease Outbreak
News](https://www.who.int/emergencies/disease-outbreak-news) and the
[Coronavirus Dashboard](https://data.who.int/dashboards/covid19)
produced by the World Health Organization (WHO).

**METHODOLOGICAL NOTE:** The unit of analysis in the database is an
**outbreak**, defined as the occurrence of at least one case of a
specific disease in a country -or territory- during a particular year.
Therefore, a country -or territory- cannot have more than one outbreak
of the same disease in the same year, although it may experience
outbreaks of different diseases within the same year. A country can only
have multiple outbreaks of the same disease if they occur in different
years.

Potential applications of the data include combining it with other
information sources to explore the relationship between disease
outbreaks and factors such as geographical, environmental,
globalization, and socioeconomic conditions.

#### About the project

The dataset is the result of collaborative work by a team of researchers
from the University of Göttingen, the University of Groningen, and the
University of Bordeaux. The project was made possible through financial
support from the [ENLIGHT network](https://enlight-eu.org/index.php),
the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD), and the Federal Ministry of
Education and Research (BMBF) in Germany.

The findings of the first version of the dataset have been published in
Springer Nature’s Scientific Data.  
[Read the paper by clicking
here!](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41597-022-01797-2).
Additionally, the data, metadata, and the code to replicate the first
version of this dataset are publicly available on Figshare. [You can
download them by clicking
here!](https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/A_global_dataset_of_pandemic-_and_epidemic-prone_disease_outbreaks/17207183)

#### IMPORTANT NOTE

From October 2024, this project is being updated by Dr. Juan Armando
Torres Munguía. In case of questions, requests, or collaborations, you
can contact me via [GitHub](https://github.com/jatorresmunguia),
[X](https://x.com/jtorresmunguia), or
[here](https://juan-torresmunguia.netlify.app/contact/).

The last version of the dataset was updated on 31/10/2024 and contains
information on 3056 **outbreaks**, associated with 86 infectious
diseases that occurred from 01/01/1996 to 31/10/2024 in 236 countries
and territories worldwide.
